Czech Republic aims to boost tech collaboration with Malaysia in CBRNe solutions
Visitors inspecting the CBRNe solutions equipment at the Czech Republic pavilion at the Defence Services Asia and National Security 2024 exhibition. -NSTP/FUAD NIZAM
KUALA LUMPUR: The Czech Republic hopes to further strengthen its ties with Malaysia in terms of technological solutions in the fields of chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRNe); and natural disaster preparedness.

Speaking on the sidelines at the Defence Services Asia (DSA) and National Security (Natsec) 2024, Czech Republic ambassador Juraj Koudelka said the Czech Republic, known for its expertise in technology and innovation, aims to collaborate closely with Malaysia to provide advanced technological solutions to tackle the challenges posed by CBRN incidents and natural disasters.

Koudelka said with the increasing complexity and frequency of CBRNe-related incidents globally, effective preparedness and response mechanisms are paramount.

Examples cited include the assassination of Kim Jong-Nam with a nerve agent and the Covid-19 pandemic.

MORE NEWS
Czech zoo shows off endangered baby hippo [NSTTV]
Renault talks to China's Li Auto and Xiaomi on tech collaboration
Defence and security deals worth RM8.1bil expected at DSA and Natsec Asia 2024
Countless collaboration opportunities can be explored between Malaysia and Kyrgyz republic - Anwar
As such, he said, there are Czech firms that can offer solutions such as drones-both air and land, personal protective equipment - such as hermetically sealed suits; and also biological containment equipment.

"By leveraging our respective strengths and resources, the Czech Republic is willing to provide solutions such as technology and knowledge transfer to Malaysia to enhance their capabilities in detecting, preventing, and mitigating the impact of CBRNe-related matters.

"We also would aspire to have Malaysia as the leading regional hub for such technological solutions."

Acknowledging the country's natural disasters, he said the solutions offered extend to preparedness, recognising the growing threat posed by climate change-induced disasters such as floods, landslides, and forest fires.

"We also seek to share best practices, knowledge, and technologies, to ensure both countries strengthen their resilience and response strategies to mitigate the impact of such disasters on their communities and infrastructure."

The Czech Republic and its 14 national defence companies are among the 1,324 exhibitors at the DSA and Natsec 2024 which is held from May 6 to May 9 at Malaysia International Trade & Exhibition Centre (Mitec).