PM wants Malaysian defence industries to showcase tech advancements at DSA and Natsec Asia 2024
Prime Minister Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim the opening ceremony of the 18th Defence Services Asia (DSA) and National Security (Natsec) Asia 2024 exhibitions. -NSTP/ASYRAF HAMZAH
KUALA LUMPUR: Prime Minister Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim has called upon local defence industries to seize the opportunity and showcase Malaysia's technological advancements and collaborative spirit at the Defence Services Asia (DSA) and National Security (Natsec) Asia 2024 exhibitions.

Speaking at the opening ceremony of the 18th DSA and Natsec Asia 2024 exhibitions, he emphasised the pivotal role of industry players in shaping Malaysia's defence landscape and urged them to capitalise on this global platform.

He also praised the dedication and ingenuity of local industry players, highlighting their significant contributions to Malaysia's defence sector.

"To our local defence industries, I say to you, carpe diem. Seize this opportunity to showcase our capabilities and innovations on the global stage. Your dedication and ingenuity have been instrumental in shaping Malaysia's defence landscape, and now is the time to demonstrate your expertise.

MORE NEWS
Mildef committed to local production of armoured vehicles
Cisco's Predictions for 2024: Navigating Malaysia's Tech Horizon
18 anti-tank weapons part of RM7.3b worth of deals signed by Mindef at DSA
New AW189 helicopters will boost MMEA's capabilities
"Let your pavilions stand as beacons of excellence, highlighting not just our technological prowess but also our commitment to collaboration and partnership.
Prime Minister Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim at the Defence Services Asia (DSA) and National Security (Natsec) Asia 2024 exhibitions. -BERNAMA PIC
"Now is the time to demonstrate your expertise. Let your pavilions stand as beacons of excellence, highlighting not just our technological prowess but also our commitment to collaboration and partnership,

Anwar also urged participants to come together, share knowledge, innovate, exchange technologies and ideas, and forge partnerships, emphasising the interconnected nature of challenges in the defence industry.

Addressing the event's theme, "Building Resilient Nations for the Next Generation", he emphasised the importance of laying the groundwork for a better world where future generations could thrive in peace, supported by robust defences and strategic partnerships.

He underscored the need for this theme to resonate globally, especially amid escalating global challenges threatening collective security and prosperity.

Highlighting contemporary threats, Anwar pointed out the increasing cyberattacks compromising sensitive data and environmental concerns exacerbating tensions.

He stressed the urgent need for unified responses to address these challenges and ensure future prosperity.

"These escalating threats are pushing the world towards an unprecedented turning point, demanding a unified response.

"The digital realm, our so-called second reality, faces relentless cyberattacks that threaten to compromise our most sensitive data, undermining our security and the trust upon which our societies and economies stand.

"Environmental concerns and the scarcity of resources exacerbate these tensions. Climate change is not a distant threat but a present crisis, impacting food security, causing natural disasters, and displacing communities. As societies wobble under these pressures, the spectre of crumbling economies looms large, undermining the prospects of future prosperity," he added.

The 18th edition of DSA and Natsec is being held at the Malaysia International Trade and Exhibition Centre (MITEC) from today until May 9.

Anwar expressed optimism that the events and discussions over the next three days would catalyse positive change towards a more secure future.