Tabung Haji ready with contingency plans for Malaysian haj pilgrims
Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department (Religious Affairs) Datuk Dr Mohd Na’im Mokhtar, in assuring the safety of Malaysian pilgrims, said TH’s contingency plans had already been discussed with the Saudi Arabian government. Bernama pic.
PUTRAJAYA: Lembaga Tabung Haji (TH) has laid out contingency plans for all Malaysian haj pilgrims in the event of any natural disasters during the haj season this year.

Minister in the Prime Minister's Department (Religious Affairs) Datuk Dr Mohd Na'im Mokhtar, in assuring the safety of Malaysian pilgrims, said TH's contingency plans had already been discussed with the Saudi Arabian government.

"We don't make any sort of plans without discussing or seeking the views of the Saudi Arabian government.

"The safety and welfare of Malaysian haj pilgrims are TH and the Malaysian government's priority."

MORE NEWS
TH tells Malaysian haj pilgrims stranded in Makkah to lodge a report
Haj pilgrims advised to drink more water, avoid sun exposure
Kelantan provides RM300,000 assistance to state Tabung Haji
Malaysian pilgrims among first to receive Nusuk card
He told this to reporters when met at the Semarak Aidilfitri celebrations here, today.

Na'im said the first flight from Malaysia for haj would leave on May 9.

"We get constant updates from the Saudi Arabian government (on the situation there), and we also have a haj consulate there.

"I'm being given daily briefings on the situation."

It was reported that torrential rain hit Saudi Arabia, forcing roads to be closed and schools to shut.

Flash floods hit the cities of Madinah and Al-Ula.

Meanwhile, Na'im reminded Malaysian haj pilgrims to be on their best behaviour, and protect the good name of the country.

"The Saudi Arabian government always speaks highly of Malaysian pilgrims, especially our discipline.

"That is why Malaysia is being given the priority in things such as additional haj quota, and our visas were one of the first to be issued.

"So i really hope our haj pilgrims continue to be disciplined and don't get involved in any activity that goes against the rules set by the Saudi Arabian government," he added.

The Hari Raya Aidilfitri event, organised by the Federal Territories Department together with Federal Territories Islamic Religious Council, was also attended by Prime Minister Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim, his wife Datuk Seri Dr Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, and Minister in the Prime Minister's Department (Federal Territories) Dr Zaliha Mustafa.

During the event, Zaliha and Na'im also presented cash donations to about 200 special needs children.