Lifebuoy brightens Ramadan for 100 underprivileged folk
Lifebuoy, in partnership with Watsons Malaysia and Hope Worldwide Malaysia, hosted a special Ramadan event last Saturday for 100 underprivileged individuals. - NSTP/AIZUDDIN SAAD
KUALA LUMPUR: Lifebuoy, in partnership with Watsons Malaysia and Hope Worldwide Malaysia, hosted a special Ramadan event last Saturday for 100 underprivileged individuals.

As part of their corporate social responsibility, the event aimed to improve the public's health literacy by providing them with knowledge and promoting good hygiene practices.

Personal care provisions were donated to over 1,100 underprivileged families across Malaysia as part of this initiative.

The event featured an enlightening session by Dr Amanda Elli on "H is for Handwashing," which included a demonstration of the 7-step handwashing method recommended by the Health Ministry.

MORE NEWS
Shorter working hours for Pahang civil servants on Fridays during Ramadan
#HEALTH: Staying hydrated during Ramadan
Overwhelming demand for grilled rabbit at Ramadan bazaar
Kapitan Keling Mosque organises various programmes for children throughout Ramadan
There was also a lively entertainment skit presented by special guest Norhanizam, a popular Malaysian comedian known as Nizam Jentik Jentik.

A special Ramadan bonanza was held, awarding ten lucky families with kitchen appliances.

They were gifted Baju Raja gift vouchers worth RM150 each as well.

Hope Worldwide Malaysia executive director Katy Lee said this collaboration is a powerful stride in their journey to empowering underprivileged families and ensuring these families prioritise their health and hygiene.

"We are proud to have Lifebuoy as one of our longstanding partners that have continuously strived to empower communities on the importance of hand hygiene, and give back to make them safer and healthier."

Unilever Skin Cleansing Lead (Malaysia, Singapore) Siti Suhaila Abd Hamid said they are committed to raising public awareness about hygiene practices to prevent infections, while ensuring that every community member has access to important daily necessities such as handwash soap.

"Apart from school programmes and events, we work with non-governmental organisations, business partners and ministries to donate hand soap, hand wash and body wash to communities in need.

"We have also reached out to indigenous communities, B40 families and those who have experienced natural disasters."