Old buildings unsafe, out of place?
KUALA LUMPUR: Are historic structures dangerous?

Malaysia's major cities are full of old buildings, and a small percentage are in poor condition.

Old buildings' safety depends on a number of important variables, such as the materials used during construction, previous maintenance records, structural soundness, and compliance with contemporary safety regulations.

While some historic buildings are made of sturdy materials like brick or stone, others can be at risk because of antiquated building methods, particularly with regard to seismic resistance.

MORE NEWS
KPKT in final stage of drafting first Urban Redevelopment Act
Plug loopholes in building codes
Chang: HBA baffled over sharing of buyers data among govt agencies
2 killed in building collapse in North India
Industry experts said that with time, wear and tear, which can be made worse by improper care, exposure to the elements, or natural disasters, can jeopardise a building's structural integrity.

They claimed that in order to properly manage these hazards, routine maintenance and inspections are essential.

Furthermore, the experts said that older buildings might not meet modern safety standards and building rules, requiring repairs or retrofitting for increased safety.

Some argue for preservation, citing the obstacles of infrastructure and the environmental effects of densification, while others push for revitalisation to keep up with surrounding developments.

"Despite these challenges, preservation efforts for historically or architecturally significant buildings often entail thorough structural assessments and renovations to maintain both safety and heritage value," they told NST Property.

Repurposing old buildings for contemporary use is common, albeit requiring meticulous evaluation and sometimes structural modifications to meet modern safety requirements, said Datuk Chang Kim Loong, honorary secretary-general of the National House Buyers Association (HBA).

However, concerns about redevelopment often arise, particularly in cases where older strata of buildings are targeted for redevelopment, as observed in Kuala Lumpur, he said.

Chang highlighted the importance of proper maintenance and legislative frameworks, such as the Strata Management Act 2013 (SMA) and Strata Titles Act (STA), in ensuring the longevity and livability of older buildings. 

By leveraging existing laws and exploring upgrades outlined in the Uniform Building By-Laws, authorities can enhance the safety and quality of life within older structures without compromising owners' interests.

"The proponents argue that they no longer complement the modern, high-end buildings surrounding them. We have no objections when they are single owners, such as City Hall and PKNS, because the single owners dictate what they want to do with their sites.

"Same cannot be said for multiple ownership sites," he told NST Property.
Chang noted that developments in the 1990s were fairly well done, with moderate density and plenty of open spaces under decent planning guidelines.

In contrast, developments in the city today are only based on maximising profits with maximum density. 

Chang said it is unlikely for existing infrastructure that has sustained a block of walk-up flats built 40 years ago to cater to a new development of 50 storeys on the same site, regardless of any sustainability strategies. 

Worries about traffic congestion, an increase in carbon footprint, infrastructure challenges, and accessibility to basic amenities are valid, he said.

"Some argue that the old buildings' worn-out conditions make them dangerous for occupation. If that is the case, why did the Madani government allocate RM50 million to repair run-down lifts in low-cost strata houses in Budget 2023? Doesn't that mean that, with proper care and maintenance, old buildings can continue to be liveable?

"We also have the Strata Management Act 2013 (SMA), which provides for contributions by owners to the maintenance account and sinking fund account so that strata buildings can be properly maintained, refurbished, and upgraded without falling into disrepair.

"We have the Strata Titles Act (STA) for dissolution and surrender of strata titles with owners' unanimous resolution. There are sufficient laws in place to push for sprucing up dilapidated buildings without sacrificing the interests of the owners. 

"If the entire MADANI government has genuine intentions, perhaps they should look at the Uniform Building By-Laws to see what upgrades could be introduced so that older buildings are safer and cleaner for their occupants," Chang said.

Chang said in the oft-cited Desa Kudalari Condomimium, whose attempt at "en bloc masse sale" was thwarted by the objection of about 30 per cent of the owners, some quarters have claimed that the building subsequently became so dilapidated that its value fell far below what the developer offered as compensation for the en bloc masse sale.

"However, the last HBA checked, Desa Kudalari is doing very well under a new management committee, which consists mostly of owner-occupiers, rather than investors who are all too eager to dispose of the property for a quick profit," Chang said.