PN's 20 resolutions
The Perikatan Nasional convention tonight passed 20 resolutions to move forward on their road to gather more support ahead of the 16th General Election (GE16). STR/SADIQ SANI
KUALA LUMPUR: The Perikatan Nasional convention tonight passed 20 resolutions to move forward on their road to gather more support ahead of the 16th General Election (GE16).

Its chairman Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin said their focus is to ensure those who are already supporting them continue doing so and to attract more non-voters to support them.

The 20 resolutions are:

1. Upholding the Federal Constitution, promoting the principles of constitutional monarchy, parliamentary democracy, the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary.

MORE NEWS
Hamzah announces PN 'shadow cabinet', hints at Muhyiddin being PM pick
Muhyiddin calls for voter action: Reject unity government over failed promises
Charges ready but Adlan can't be found
Muhyiddin denies involvement in Spanco contract controversy
2. Upholding the principle of federalism based on the Federal Constitution while respecting the rights of states and strengthening the fraternal relations between the Peninsular, Sabah, and Sarawak, and always respecting the 1963 Malaysia Agreement.

3. Upholding Islam as the religion of the Federation, empowering the Islamic legal system while respecting the rights of followers of other religions.

4. Empowering a diverse society by acting justly and compassionately towards all citizens regardless of race, religion, or ethnicity, including Malays, Chinese, Indians, Sikhs, Kadazans, Dusuns, Ibans, Muruts, Indigenous peoples, seniors, women, youth, children and persons with disabilities.

5. Boosting Malaysia's economic growth based on future industries with a conducive business environment to attract quality and high-value investments, enhancing international trade relations, and optimising socio-economic potential in each state to reduce development disparities and ensure fair and equitable economic distribution for prosperity of all.

6. Focusing on efforts to alleviate the cost of living burden by increasing income, ensuring the availability and affordability of necessities and improving access to housing and healthcare to provide a decent standard of living for the people.

7. Enhancing agri-food production resources and strengthening the supply chain with the use of technology and automation to ensure food security for people at reasonable prices.

8. Strengthening social protection for the people through the establishment of a single unified agency to coordinate welfare assistance, provide job opportunities, enhance skills and comprehensively eradicate poverty.

9. Strengthening the education ecosystem from preschool to the job market to ensure that every segment of society, urban and rural, has access to quality education, including by empowering digital education and building a competitive Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) programme network to produce high-income workers.

10. Strengthening the Bumiputera development agenda in all fields, especially in the economy, education, entrepreneurship, and social sectors, by setting clear success targets and implementing effective strategic interventions while creating a supportive ecosystem to develop competitive Bumiputera individuals.

11. Improving the financial management efficiency and service delivery of government institutions without political interference and abuse of power.

12. Defending the welfare of civil servants and ensuring they fulfil their responsibilities professionally, with integrity and efficiency.

13. Ensuring freedom of speech and media, including social media, without intimidation from any authority.

14. Preserving the nation's heritage and protecting the environment, including forests, mineral resources, and rivers, from the threat of greed to prevent waste and disasters by supporting sustainable development initiatives and new renewable energy in facing global climate change.

15. Empowering youth as drivers of national development in economic, social, and political aspects by ensuring their inclusive involvement in Malaysia's future agenda, including through the provision of high-quality job opportunities and potential development programmes to enable them to compete globally.

16. Increasing women's participation in national development optimally, including in the economic and social sectors, by providing a comprehensive support ecosystem based on individual needs and preserving women's well-being in empowering society and the nation.

17. Strengthening Malaysia's relations with foreign countries, including in terms of sovereignty, security, trade, economy and socio-cultural aspects, while actively engaging Malaysia in addressing global issues at the international level, including fully supporting the Palestinian people's struggle and the establishment of an independent and sovereign Palestinian state determined by its people.

18. Mainstreaming the principles of compassion, cleanliness, and stability based on serving the people, which have become the nature of PN's struggle and ensuring that this core struggle is internalised, upheld and defended by the leadership and all grassroots members of the party.

19. Strengthening unity among PN member parties and empowering unity within each party while enhancing strategic cooperation among PN representatives throughout the country to consistently advocate for the welfare of the people based on the principles of PN's struggle.

20. Strengthening the formulation of party strategies and action plans, especially those related to the welfare of the people, and preparing potential candidates who are authoritative, clean, have integrity, are corruption-free, and loyal to the party's struggle in preparation for GE16.