Kelantan must build more water treatment plants to meet demand, says Fadillah
Deputy Prime Minister Datuk Seri Fadillah Yusof. -BERNAMA PIC
KUALA LUMPUR: The Kelantan state government must intensify its efforts to set up more water treatment plants to supply clean water to its people and address recurring water issues in the state.

Deputy Prime Minister Datuk Seri Fadillah Yusof said the water issues in the state often occurred due to high demand that exceeded the capacity of the water company.

"If we take a look at water production and demand on average, the water production is only at 514.7 million litres per day compared with a demand of 584.4 million litres per day.

"This means that the reserve margin is low, while the non-revenue water (NRW) in the state is high at 54.5 per cent.

MORE NEWS
PBAPP seeks SPAN's help for cloud seeding
Seven areas across Klang Valley, Selangor to have water supply disruptions from June 5 [NSTTV]
Federal govt to analyse delays in Kedah water treatment plants before considering additional funding
Fadillah: Labuan must have alternative water sources to tackle supply issues
"At the federal level, we can assist in terms of the water supply source itself, but the treatment plants need to be provided by the state government through their own (water) company," he said during minister's question time in Dewan Rakyat today.

Fadillah, who is also the energy transition and public utilities minister, said this in response to a supplementary question from Datuk Siti Zailah Mohd Yusoff (PN-Rantau Panjang) on the government's long-term plan to construct reservoirs to collect floodwaters.

He also said RM500 million had been loaned to the Kelantan government to build water treatment plants to enhance its production capacity.

"However, the state government wants to request (the allocation) as a grant. (And) this is why when tariff adjustments (for water) were made recently, it was aimed at helping the state government to focus on building treatment plants.

"If we provide the resources but no plants, we still cannot supply clean water to the people. Hence, that is the discussion that is currently underway to assist (the state government)."

In other development, Fadillah said the Federal Government was cooperating with the National Disaster Management Agency (Nadma), the Malaysian Meteorological Department (METMalaysia) and the state governments to conduct cloud-seeding operations in the dry season to increase water levels at reservoirs.

"At the same time, the National Water Services Commission (Span) will coordinate assistance between state water operators during supply crises caused by natural disasters or unforeseen factors by providing technical assistance and related relief missions to neighbouring states.

"This is in line with the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that has been signed together (with neighbouring states).

"Among the responsibilities of water operators in addressing water supply crises include providing manpower, machinery, tanker trucks, advisory services and technical expertise," he said.