Cabinet approves reshuffling of agencies; places 5G rollout under Digital Ministry
Communications Minister Fahmi Fadzil said other agencies now under the Digital Ministry were the Malaysian Administrative Modernisation and Management Planning Unit (Mampu), Malaysia Digital Economy Corporation (MDEC), and CyberSecurity Malaysia. - NSTP/MOHD FADLI HAMZAH
PUTRAJAYA: Cabinet has agreed to place several agencies under the Digital Ministry, including the agency responsible for the rollout of the 5G network, Digital Nasional Bhd (DNB).

Communications Minister Fahmi Fadzil said other agencies now under the Digital Ministry were the Malaysian Administrative Modernisation and Management Planning Unit (Mampu), Malaysia Digital Economy Corporation (MDEC), and CyberSecurity Malaysia.

"Previously, CyberSecurity was under the Prime Minister's Department, but the Prime Minister has agreed for it to be parked under the Digital Ministry to address the corporate aspects.

"It would need some rebranding so there is no misunderstanding concerning our digital safety, and this will be done by the Digital Ministry.

MORE NEWS
Mampu to be placed under Digital Ministry
Cabinet reshuffle: Clear signal of Unity Govt moving forward
PM keeps mum on cabinet reshuffle
Beyond the Headlines: Cabinet Reshuffle [NSTTV]
"The Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) will remain under the Communications Ministry," he said during a press conference today.

Mimos Bhd, previously under the Prime Minister's Department, would return to the Science, Technology, and Innovation Ministry.

"However, Mimos' MyDigital ID functions will remain under the Prime Minister's Department for the time being.

"Once it is fully developed in March, it will be helmed by the Digital Ministry," he added.

The Irrigation and Drainage Department would be placed under the Energy Transition and Public Utilities Ministry, while the Malaysian Green Technology and Climate Change Corporation would be put under the Natural Resources and Environment Sustainability Minister.

"As for the Malaysian Indian Transformation Unit (Mitra), the Prime Minister has agreed to discuss moving the agency under the National Unity Ministry, after they had received feedback from the public and the stakeholders.

"This will be finalised later," he added.

Meanwhile, Fahmi said Prime Minister Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim had stressed for the government to work as a team, especially when answering questions in Parliament.

Anwar, he said, had delegated issues on Sabah and Sarawak to Deputy Prime Minister II Datuk Seri Fadillah Yusof.

In his absence, the questions would be answered by Entrepreneur Development and Cooperatives Minister Datuk Ewon Benedick, followed by National Unity Minister Datuk Aaron Ago Dagang, then Energy Transition and Public Utilities Deputy Minister Akmal Nasrullah Mohd Nasir.

Matters pertaining to disasters would be answered by Deputy Prime Minister I Datuk Seri Dr Ahmad Zahid Hamidi, who, in his absence, will be replaced by Women, Family, and Community Development Minister Datuk Seri Nancy Shukri, and Rural and Regional Development Minister Datuk Rubiah Wang.

Zahid would also be tasked to answer questions regarding Felda.