Saving livestock during floods
A villager taking his cows to higher ground after Kampung Simpangan, Tumpat, Kelantan, was flooded. FILE PIC
LETTERS: The Consumers Association of Penang (CAP) views seriously the worsening floods due to the loss of lives and destruction of the environment.

Livestock are among the many casualties in natural disasters, particularly floods.

Farmers who depend on the rearing of livestock are affected when disasters strike as the animals are the least priority in disaster management.

The Department of Statistics reported that the livestock sector lost RM36.9 million in 2022.

MORE NEWS
In south China, silkworm farmers reel from deadly floods
(UPDATED) Malaysia to turn to China, Pakistan after India's onions export ban
Heightened security at police stations across country
Starving Gazans forced to slaughter horses, eat livestock bran
Measures must be taken to mitigate losses in livestock, and emergency preparedness is critical for animal welfare and business continuity.

Planning helps in making better decisions to help and protect animals before and during disasters.

Animals caught in floods suffer stress, shock, limb damage, blood loss, dehydration and death from drowning.

The Agriculture and Food Security Ministry and the Department of Veterinary Services, which are responsible for the welfare and health of farm animals, should play a major role in animal risk management during disasters.

An effective approach requires more than rescuing animals in emergencies.

If emergency assistance is not provided, animals may die from lack of food and water, malnutrition and flood-related diseases.

In most cases, the time taken to respond is hampered and the availability of resources is reduced in rural areas, sometimes due to inaccessibility.

Evacuation plans and equipment should be readied for low-lying areas and staff must respond to alerts issued by evacuation coordinators.

Teams should be contactable via handphones or walkie-talkies.

Ideally, the ministry and veterinary authorities, who have the knowledge, equipment and facilities, should establish animal treatment and rescue centres in affected areas.

Working with communities, voluntary bodies and animal welfare non-governmental organisations can be coordinated with the help of government agencies.

Another problem is the need to remove injured animals for treatment.

Dead animals in flooded areas can pose a threat to public health if they are not removed promptly.

The ministry and the veterinary authorities should consider implementing policies and strategies to reduce risks and minimise the impact of disasters on animals.

Disaster risk reduction is the way forward and the veterinary authorities must work with international animal welfare organisations to ensure the safety of pets and livestock.

MOHIDEEN ABDUL KADER

President, Consumers Association of Penang

The views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect those of the New Straits Times