Works Ministry to meet PWD on setup of centralised slope management agency
Works Minister Datuk Seri Alexander Nanta Linggi says slope failure has emerged as among the key concerns arising from climate change. - NSTP file pic
KUALA LUMPUR: The Works Ministry will be holding a discussion soon with the Public Works Department (PWD) on setting up a centralised federal agency for slope monitoring and engineering.

Works Minister Datuk Seri Alexander Nanta Linggi said slope failure has emerged as among the key concerns arising from climate change.

Nanta said the suggestion by Datuk Dr Gue See Sew, who is Founding Fellow of the Asean Academy of Engineering and Technology, was a timely one.

"Slope failures have resulted not only in property and infrastructure damage but also led to loss of lives.

MORE NEWS
Nanta: Complaints received via MYJalan app to serve as master data for road repairs
Nanta: PWD's Disaster Ops Room 'BigBen' instructed to operate daily from 8am to midnight
Works Ministry to undertake studies on MLFF implementation
KKR allocates RM50 mill to repair damaged, collapsed roads due to floods
"We have to admit that climate change has contributed to numerous natural disasters, not just in Malaysia but also other countries which have felt the effects.

"In Malaysia, slope failure is among the effects of climate change.

"I take note and appreciate Dr Gue's suggestion. On that basis, I believe that the suggestion should be given due attention.

"I agree that all ministries and agencies involved must discuss and implement more effective ideas to tackle the problem of slope failures. The Works Ministry and the Public Works Department will meet soon to discuss this" he told the New Straits Times.

On Jan 2, the NST had published a report, quoting experts calling for a centralised federal agency for slope engineering to be set up. Such an agency, they said, can assist local authorities in identifying landslide-prone areas and draw up mitigation measures to prevent future and recurring landslides.

The agency, they said, is also crucial due to the lack of geotechnical experts for the 149 local authorities in Malaysia.

Experts had also cautioned that landslides could even occur from slopes which had previously no signs of damage.

Their warnings came in the wake of a landslide in Taman Wawasan Puchong, which saw 29 occupants of nine terraced houses evacuated from their homes due to safety concerns.

Meanwhile, Nanta said the idea was also timely as the National Slope Master Plan (NSMP) 2009-2023 has ended.

He said for NSMP was approved by the cabinet on Aug 12, 2009. The NSMP, he said, is the main referral source for federal and state agencies on slope management.

Its objectives, he said, include reducing the risk of landslides nationwide.

Nanta said the government is also working towards extending the NSMP for seven years (2024 - 2030).

"This is in line with Malaysia's international commitments under the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction (2015-2030).

"Under the NSMP, an Inter-Governmental Agency Committee for Slope Management (ICSM) was established in 2011, comprising 33 agencies including academic members and industry players.

"The committee discusses slope management matters, data-sharing, knowledge and viewpoint exchange, as well as the latest technological advancements. The PWD is also responsible for managing forensic activities when landslides occur and leads the Landslide Task Force Committee.

"This committee also comprises agencies from various ministries such as the National Disaster Management Agency, Minerals and Geoscience Department, Irrigation and Drainage Department, Malaysian Meteorological Department, Department of Survey and Mapping Malaysia, Malaysian Space Agency, and other relevant agencies."

Nanta said that as of 2023, NSMP has successfully improved the country's slope management system.

"The production of landslide hazard and risk maps, real-time development of early warning systems for landslides, improvement of relevant slope-related acts and guidelines, awareness and education for stakeholders and the general public, data collection and sharing among agencies, as well as studies and research, have contributed to strengthening the country's slope management," he said.