Domestic animals, livestock should be included in flood emergency plans- CAP
GEORGE TOWN: The Agriculture and Food Security Ministry and the Veterinary Services Department (DVS) should seriously consider implementing policies and strategies to reduce risks and minimise the impact of disasters on animals.

According to Consumers' Association of Penang (CAP) president Mohideen Abdul Kader, flooding causes widespread devastation resulting in the loss of lives and livestock, agricultural crops and damage to properties.

Mohideen said, in recent decades, it had been aggravated by the effects of climate change that was already happening all over the world.

He added that in the event of a flood, there was no safety precaution in place to safeguard or facilitate the evacuation of the farm animals.

MORE NEWS
Police advise motorists visiting Kelantan to plan journey wisely
Dark secrets of flood mitigation funds: Allegations of kickbacks, proxy companies, and legal facilitation [NSTTV]
Avoid plastic toys, CAP tells parents
CAP calls for curbs on firecrackers, fireworks
"We view the worsening floods very seriously because of the loss of lives and the destruction of the environment. Livestock are constantly among the many casualties in times of natural disasters, particularly floods, which are the most frequent and widespread of all weather-related natural catastrophes.

"Farmers who depend their livelihood on the rearing of livestock will be severely impacted when disaster strikes as the animals are the least priority in disaster management.

"As such, disaster risk reduction (DRR) is the way forward and DVS must work with international animal welfare organisations to ensure the safety of pets and livestock.

"With disaster risk reduction being promoted in many disaster-prone areas in many parts of the world, Malaysia needs to have strategies and policies in place to enhance its knowledge of livestock responsiveness," he said today.

The Department of Statistics reported RM36.9 million in losses to the livestock sector in 2022.

It caused both economic losses as well as the lives and sufferings of livestock whenever disaster struck.

Measures, according to Mohideen, have to be taken to mitigate losses in livestock and emergency preparedness is critical for animal welfare and business continuity.

He said planning ahead assisted in making better decisions to help and protect these animals before and during a disaster.

"Animals caught in a flood often suffer from stress, shock, limb damage, blood loss, dehydration, and ultimately death from drowning.

"Given the magnitude of losses and the importance of livestock to the breeders and rearers, the Agriculture and Food Security Ministry and the DVS which are responsible for the welfare and health of farm animals countrywide, should play a proactive role in animal risk management during disasters.

"An effective approach requires more than rescuing animals in emergencies. If emergency assistance is not provided, animals may die from lack of food and water, malnutrition and flood-related diseases," he added.

Mohideen said, in most cases, the time taken to respond was hampered and the availability of resources were significantly reduced in rural areas, sometimes due to difficult accessibility.

He said evacuation plans and equipment should be readied for low-lying areas and respective personnels had to be identified to respond to an alert issued by the coordinator of the evacuation effort.

"Everyone in the teams involved should be contactable via handphones or walkie-talkies.

Ideally, the ministry and veterinary authorities with the knowledge, equipment and facilities should immediately establish animal treatment and rescue centers in the affected areas.

"Working with the assistance of communities, voluntary bodies/organisations, and animal welfare NGOs can be coordinated with the help of government agencies.

Another problem is the need to remove injured animals for treatment. Dead animals in severely flooded areas can pose a threat to public health if they are not removed soon.

"Animals suffer during disasters because they are very much dependent on humans.

Therefore, we call for domestic animals and livestock to be included in emergency plans," he said